---
layout: lesson
root: ../..
title: Scientific Python Basics
---

This lesson will be a crash course in programming. We're using the Python
language, which is popular in science, but the principles we're teaching are
applicable to programming in any language.

You're coming into this lesson with different amounts of programming knowledge.
If you have done little or no programming before, you may find that the lesson
proceeds very quickly. Don't hesitate to ask the volunteers around the room for
help, or team up to work on exercises together. If you have done some
programming before and you're comfortable with the lesson material, see if you
can help others around you. 

The files
---------

- [Student Notebook](python.ipynb)
- [Master Notebook](python-full.ipynb)

The student notebook has spaces for you to type in the code yourself. We often
remember things we write better than things we just see, so it's worth the
effort to follow along with this. If you missed something, though, you can go
back to it in the master notebook, which has the code filled in.

Starting an IPython Notebook
----------------------------

To learn about these core concepts and the Python language, we'll start off by 
working within the IPython notebook.

To start up a notebook, open Terminal and navigate to the folder containing the 
ipynb notebook files that you wish to open (or to any directory in which you'd 
like to save a new notebook, if you're creating a new notebook from scratch). 
Once in the directory, run the command `ipython notebook`, which will launch a 
local webserver and open your default browser. From there you can open an 
existing notebook, create a new notebook, and start working.

Note that if you are on a Windows machine, this command may not run under 
mysysgit or Cygwin. If it doesn't, open a Command Prompt (click on the Start 
menu and type `cmd` in the search box for Windows 7, or click on Run then type 
cmd for Windows XP), navigate to the appropriate directory, and run the command 
`ipython notebook`.

Going further
-------------

Extra lessons in this course will teach you about loading and saving data files,
plotting graphs and unit testing. You can also ask the instructors and helpers
about recommendations for specific things you want to find out how to do. 

The [course repository](https://github.com/takluyver/2014-03-17-ucb/tree/gh-pages/lessons)
has a lot more lesson material that we're not presenting. The [Python Scientific
Lecture Notes](http://scipy-lectures.github.io/) site is a detailed introduction
to using some of the major scientific Python tools. And there is plenty more
information on the web about Python and scientific Python tools.

The [Berkeley Python site](http://python.berkeley.edu/) gathers links to
resources and news of relevant events happening on campus.
